[Term Entry] Lua Coroutines .status() (#3458)
Codecademy/docs: content/lua/concepts/coroutines/terms/status/status.md

---
Title: '.status()'
Description: 'Returns the status of the provided coroutine.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Async Await'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The method **`.status()`** takes a coroutine as a parameter and returns the status of that coroutine. This status can be one of three states: `suspended`, `running`, or `dead`.

> When a coroutine is created, it has a status of `suspended`. Once a coroutine is ran or resumed, it has a status of `running` until it is either re-suspended using `coroutine.yield()`, or it completes. If a coroutine completes its execution and terminates, it receives a permanent status of `dead`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a coroutine is created, it has a status of `suspended` by default. Once a coroutine has been called or resumed, it has a status of `running`.  The coroutine will run until it is suspended, using `coroutine.yield()`, or it completes. If a coroutine completes its execution and terminates, it receives a permanent status of `dead`.
```

## Syntax

> The syntax for calling `.status()` is given below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax for calling `status()` is given below:
```

```pseudo

> coroutine.status(parameterCoroutine)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coroutine.status(xCoroutine)
```

```

> Where `parameterCoroutine` names the coroutine to be checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where `xCoroutine` names the coroutine to be checked.
```

## Example

The example below demonstrates the life-cycle of a coroutine from `suspended` to `running` to `dead`:

```lua
--Create a new coroutine using the function lifecycle()

lifecycle = function(parameterCoroutine)
  print(coroutine.status(parameterCoroutine))
end

exampleCoroutine = coroutine.create(lifecycle)

print(coroutine.status(exampleCoroutine)) --Prints 'suspended', since we have not yet run exampleCoroutine.

coroutine.resume(exampleCoroutine, exampleCoroutine) --Runs exampleCoroutine and passes it as a parameter to lifecycle(). This prints 'running', since .status() is called on exampleCoroutine while it is executing.

print(coroutine.status(exampleCoroutine)) --Prints 'dead', since exampleCoroutine has terminated.

> ```

Reviewer: the output should be in a ```shell block instead of as comments

Author: I added a shell block but also kept the comments as explanations of the output.
